Project Proposal for First Capstone Project 

1. What goal will your website be designed to achieve? 

The goal of my website is to allow users who are on a specific diet or have food allergies to find recipes easily.
The website will allow a user to select a specific diet, exclude food allergies or ingredients, include a main 
food type, sort recipes by meal type, and select whether a slow cooker or instant pot is required. All of the 
inputs are optional. If the user chooses not to use any of the inputs, then the site will provide them with a 
list of random recipes. 


2. What kind of users will visit your site? In other words, what is the demographic of your users? 

Everyone can use the website to find recipes but it’ll be tailored towards users that have food allergies or 
those who are on a specific diet.


3. What data do you plan on using? You may have not picked your actual API yet, which is fine, just outline what 
kind of data you would like it to contain. 

I plan on using the data from the Spoonacular API. It will provide all of the recipes. 

https://spoonacular.com/food-api/docs


4. In brief, outline your approach to creating your project (knowing that you may not know everything in advance
and that these details might change later). Answer questions like the ones below, but feel free to add more 
information: 

a. What does your database schema look like? 

User table - store user’s information with password and recipe preferences
Saved_Recipe table - store user's saved recipes and recipe information
(Will update with diagram)


b. What kinds of issues might you run into with your API? 

There will be a lot of different parameters put into a single request. So a single request will contain all of
the parameters that the user chooses in order to filter recipes.

I have a daily quota of points that I can use for the API. Every API call I make costs a certain amount of points.
Once my daily quota is used up, the API will respond with the error code 402 and no more calls can be made until
my quota resets. That will average to about 150 API calls a day.


c. Is there any sensitive information you need to secure? 

I will need to secure the user’s password and email address as well as the API Key used to make the requests.


d. What functionality will your app include? 

The website will allow a user to filter through recipes by selecting a specific diet, excluding food allergies or
ingredients, including a main food type, sorting by meal type, and selecting whether a slow cooker or instant pot 
is required. All of the inputs are optional. If the user chooses not to use any of the inputs, then the site will
provide them with a list of random recipes. Users can also save recipes and write notes next to their saved 
recipes if they sign up or log in. 


e. What will the user flow look like? 

Homepage:  
Form that includes all of the options to filter through recipe  
Navbar to Sign Up or Log In. If logged in, Navbar will have Saved Recipes and Log Out.

Sign Up and Log In Forms: 
After Logging in or Signing up, it will show the homepage but after you get a list of recipes, you can click on 
it to save the recipe. User can click on Saved Recipes in Navbar to look at list of saved recipes.
      
User Profile:
Form to edit username, email, diet, allergies, and excluded ingredients.	


f. What features make your site more than CRUD? Do you have any stretch goals?
	
Potentially sort the saved recipes by meal type so it’s easier to locate and view







